#summary About MuPuPriNT
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

MuPuPriNT v0.2
Testing Alpha
28 July 2012 (Windows)

MuPuPriNT v0.4
Testing Alpha
17 August 2012 (Mac)

[http://ncprime.blogspot.com/ Blog!]
 
----

==About==

MuPuPriNT (MUlti PUrpose PRIme Number Tester) is a program containing five separate prime-testing programs:

  * GJSieve (Proth Numbers)
  * GJSieveC (Cullen Numbers)
  * GJSieveW (Woodall Numbers)
  * PythNT (Pythagorean Numbers)
  * IsItPrime? (Any number)

Each individual program is currently FULLY FUNCTIONAL. 

This means that the MATH side of things works fine! Each program will do exactly what it ought to. No more, no less.

----

==For Reference==

  * Proth number = k*2^n +1 where k is a positive odd integer and n is a positive integer such that 2^n > k
  * Cullen number = n*2^n +1 where n is a positive integer
  * Woodall number = n*2^n -1 where n is a positive integer
  * Pythagorean number = 4n +1 where n is a positive integer and the resulting number is the hypotenuse of a Pythagorean triangle

----

==Known Issues==

  * Although IsItPrime? will now allow you to input very large numbers, it won't accept anything longer than 30,000 digits. This, I believe, is unchangable. But that doesn't mean I won't try to change it.

----

==Not Yet Implemented==

  * The View menu is entirely useless. Still. Sorry for not having the option to dye the window purple or anything...yet.

----

==Notes (Windows)==

N.B: If the program says "Not Responding," WAIT! It IS working, but for some odd reason I cannot place, it will not output any kind of "Working..." text or progress indicator despite the progress bar I implemented.

If it stops responding for more than twenty minutes, kill it, or else stop entering values of n in the tens of millions...


As always, feedback is welcome via email.

==Notes (Mac)==

This program was designed and built on Mountain Lion, but it may also work on Lion. I do not know about Snow Leopard, if anyone is still using that. 

I do not have a Lion machine for testing so I am unsure if it will even work. If it does, the Twitter sharing option will not work and may even cause unexpected behavior.

Again - this is ONLY tested on Mountain Lion 10.8! There is NO guarantee it will work on anything earlier than 10.8. Sorry.