#summary Source Control Information

== What's Source Control? == 

Source Control is a way to manage source code for an application.

Several versions/methods come to mind: SVN, Mercurio, Git...

In our case, we have several very different applications and having just one repository would make things a bit crowded and hard to find.

Plus, since the newest versions of our projects typically contain more than a single source code file, it makes considerably more sense to have a dependencies folder in the project directory, reference all of that in our IDE, and then compile locally. 

== And your source is where? ==

When we release a new version of an application, like most software developers, we let you know, usually on [http://ncprime.blogspot.com our blog].

The Downloads section of this Google Code project contains a lot of different things - executables and archives mainly - relating to our applications and projects.

Our naming convention is pretty simple. We give the project a name and a version number. That's about it. 

== Are you in, like, perpetual alpha, or what? ==

Kind of, but not really. 

I call most things "v0.1a" when I release them for the first time ever in the history of forever. That's just good practice, since then people won't get all confused and say "where's version 1? was there a version 1? did this even exist before?" should I start off by calling something "version 2" or "version 3.5.4" just because that's how much I feel I've edited it.

As with most programming, a version number less than 1 generally indicates any number of the following things:

  * the program may be unstable
  * the program has not been tested to a great extent
  * it's not ready for public consumption...yet
  * 